# rubber_disease_detection
Rubber production in Indonesia has been declining lately, the contributing factor is the emergence of leaf fall disease in Sumatera. One of the fungi causing leaf fall disease in Sumatera is Pestalotiopsis sp. The impact of leaf fall disease on rubber trees is the leaves fall prematurely, resulting decrease in natural rubber production which is known as latex. A rubber tree will allocate more food reserve to regrow fallen leaves rather than to produce latex. Morphological observation of leaves is employed to identify the symptoms of the Pestalotiopsis sp. fungus. Symptoms of the disease include the development of dark brown spots on rubber leaves, which gradually increase in size, leading to shift in the color of rubber leaves towards deep brown hue. However, it takes a lot of energy and time to detect the disease manually.  Therefore, automatic detection is needed so disease detection can be conducted faster and efficiently. In this research, a convolutional autoencoder (CAE) was employed as a method for feature extraction, aiming to reduce the dimensionality of input data. The goal was to extract the most prominent features that could then be utilized in the training of a machine learning model. The extracted data were classified using classification methods such as support vector machine (SVM). The feature extraction method and classification methods were combined to classify the severity of Pestalotiopsis leaf fall disease.  The dataset contained images of rubber leaves taken from the Sembawa Rubber Research Center. A total of 1629 images were used as a dataset. After 10 trials using the aforementioned model, the highest accuracy was obtain training accuracy of 97.38% and testing accuracy of 86.38%. It can concluded that the model was able to predict the severity of leaf fall disease well.
